Previously, we covered how to
think about analytical problems.
We learned how to think backwards
from the decision we want to make,
then consider the information
needed to make that decision.
In this video, we continue to think about
context and introduce a way that you can
build context through the construction
of a conceptual business model.
So what is a conceptual business model?
A conceptual business model is a diagram
that illustrates how an industry or
business functions.
It shows important elements
in the business, and
maps out how those elements
relate to each other.
We'll walk through an example
of how to do this in a minute.
But first, let's talk about why
we're going through this exercise.
You could spend a lot of time and energy
learning the methods of data analytics.
And we'll cover many of those methods
in this course in later courses.
However, it's equally important
that you understand what
questions are worth asking.
And of course, what the results of your
analysis actually mean in the real world.
To do this, it's critical you have a good
understanding of how your business
actually works.
The process of constructing a conceptual
business model will force you to
learn about your business.
And will allow you to naturally discover
the key interactions that underlie your
data, and which drive your analysis.
So let's get started.
To illustrate how we build
a conceptual business model,
I'll use a business I'm familiar with.
The in-flight connectivity business.
In-flight connectivity is a service
that connects travelers on the aircraft
to the Internet on the ground.
The way this works is a data link is
made from the aircraft to the ground
using either an air-to-ground connection
or via a satellite connection.
A wireless network is then lit up inside
the plane, which allows customers to
connect to the Internet, basically,
a Wi-Fi hotspot in the sky.
That's the technical side of things.
Let's think about how
this works as a business.
It's never a bad idea to start
with a customer, so let's do that.
When a customer is using our service,
we call that a session.
And of course,
this whole thing happens on the flight.
Usually, we ask the customer to pay for
service, so
there's also a purchase event
that occurs prior to the session.
And this also happens on
the flight most of the time.
So let's pause for a moment and
see how our diagram is shaping up.
You'll notice I've simply drawn ovals with
the four elements we've discussed so far.
Customer, Session, Flight and Purchase.
And I've drawn lines between them to
illustrate that they have
a relationship to each other.
You'll also notice that some of my
lines have little forked ends on them.
What this illustrates is a one-to-many or
many-to-many relationship.
For example,
one flight may have many customers but
one customer may also take many flights.
One flight may have many purchase and
session events.
And one customer could have many
purchases and many sessions over time.
Some of these relationships are defined
by physical realities in the world.
Others are the result of
business decisions we make.
Going through the process of mapping this
out illustrates our understanding of
the business and
helps us see how certain types of events
may influence other types of events.
This will help us later when we
start analyzing the data that these
events produce.
So let's keep going.
To use our service, the customer needs
a device, usually a laptop, tablet, or
mobile phone, and an application or
a web browser installed on that device.
We also sell a specific type of
product for Internet access.
This might be a 30 minute pass,
Internet access for
the whole flight,
a monthly subscription product, or
one that depends on the device itself,
like a mobile only pass.
While we may sell the product in the air,
we may also sell it on
the ground before the flight.
This brings sales channel into play.
And we may even offer promotions on
purchases of certain products through
certain channels.
On the other side of the model,
we recognize that a specific
aircraft is flying any given flight.
And that aircraft itself has
certain characteristics,
like what kind of aircraft it is,
what airline operates it and
what kind of connectivity equipment
is installed in the plane.
Likewise, any given flight
has its own characteristics,
like where it is going to and
from, how long it is, when it was supposed
to happen, and when it does happen.
You may be starting to
see how this model is
begging questions that
we might want to answer.
What kind of devices do customers
use when accessing service?
How much does pricing and promotion matter
in how many sessions are purchased?
Does usage behavior change depending on
the type of aircraft, the airline, or
whether a flight was on time or not?
Our model allows us to see how each
question might be informed by the elements
that influence it.
Clearly, we could keep going here.
Customers are really only a subset of
the passengers onboard the flight.
And what about customers themselves?
They also have characteristics
like demographics, preferences, or
other identifiers.
We also interact with customers.
We contact them and they contact us
via a number of different channels and
may use some select channels for
specific types of communications.
There's also the technical side of things.
There's a wireless network that influences
the customer experience through
characteristics like speed and latency.
And each session generates network traffic
that can be observed and measured.
And there's a whole set of back end
network components that help to manage and
control traffic.
All of this of course,
is influenced by a commercial engine
that may involve partnerships,
sponsorships, and advertising.
And the whole system ties into a revenue
management and accounting process.
Now we have a nice view of our business.
We could probably take it even further,
but for now,
let's think about what we do with it.
As a data analyst,
you'll be working with data that
describes all the things in your diagram.
So it seems natural to start to look
at each element and wonder where
the information about that element comes
from, and start to determine whether you
have the ability to link things together
in the same way, using that data.
In later videos we'll spend more time
talking about how these real world
elements translate into analysis and
action using something called
the information action value chain.
As you can imagine,
these diagrams can get a bit complicated.
Chances are you won't be able to sit
down and map all this out on day one.
That's okay.
You can start with the basic elements and
revise your model over time,
as you learn more and
more about the business.
Find the subject matter
experts in your business and
ask them to share their understanding.
Not only will that help you round out your
own knowledge, but you're bound to foster
some good relationships that will make
you more effective down the road.
Also, remember that
businesses change constantly.
While the core elements of your model may
not change a lot, you'll probably want to
make updates as details change and
new relationships emerge.